Dear journal, today I decided to participate in my first game jam organized by Acerola, called Acerola Jam 0 - quite an inspired name if you ask me. The theme of the jam is aberration, so I decided to create a game called Albert, where you control a rabbit named Albert (you know how much I love rabbits) who faces various aberrations in the form of creatures.

The first aberration I thought to include is gravitational aberration, where the entity will control Albert's gravity. Against this creature, the player will need to be careful of gravitational changes and at the same time destroy certain colored points on the creature by jumping on them, but being careful not to be touched by the entity or the spikes rotating around it, because in the game, a single hit received by Albert will be fatal.

After defeating the first boss, so to speak, the ability to control gravity will be taken over by Albert, and if the player clicks mouse left on a border or on the exterior of it, the gravity will shift to the position where the player clicked. For example, if they click at the top, gravity will reverse, sending Albert to the ceiling. I thought to give the player 30 seconds to get used to this mechanic.

Next, there's the second aberrational creature that controls space, in other words, it distorts the game space. I thought this boss would be like a triangle moving randomly on the screen, and the player will have to avoid it while using a weapon to destroy all the colored points (I don't know what else to call them) rotating around it. As a weapon, I thought to use something separate from Albert, to challenge the player's distributive attention. So, I decided to create a cannon located on the left side of the screen that always follows the cursor, and it will fire when the player clicks the right mouse button, with a one-second waiting time between shots. The player will also have to collect the projectiles for the cannon.

After this boss, the player will keep the cannon, which will also help with the next aberrational creatures.

Time! I thought to create an entity that controls time. It will look like a kind of circle, because I initially thought of a clock, and the colored points the player needs to destroy will be around it, but they are protected by a barrier moving around the entity. I'll add animated wings to increase the difficulty because the projectiles won't pass through the wings, and the boss will be static, which will force the player to find a solution to destroy all the colored points. As a danger to Albert, I thought this boss, besides controlling time, would spawn some lines like lasers, vertical and horizontal, which Albert must avoid. For this, I'll add a kind of Dash activated by the Left Shift key, where Albert makes a short-distance time jump in the direction it is facing, thus avoiding collision.

The next boss, I think, will be a kind of biological aberration, something resembling Albert. I thought it would move around the borders and spawn spikes the player must avoid. The colored points will rotate around this entity and shrink, then return to their original shape, and so on. But to make things more difficult, after the player destroys all the points and thus the aberration, it will split into several entities that move randomly on the screen, and the boss will be destroyed only when all the entities have been destroyed by the player using the cannon.

And so I came to the last boss, which I'll call it simple, the Aberration! It will control all the other aberrations, and the player, using everything they've learned in the fight against the other aberrations, will have to resist this enemy for 1 minute!